README.md, before:

SimplePaperView
===============

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) [![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-android-green.svg)](http://developer.android.com/index.html) [![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-16%2B-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=16) [![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/lukelorusso/maven/com.lukelorusso:simplepaperview/images/download.svg?version=1.1.2) ](https://bintray.com/lukelorusso/maven/com.lukelorusso:simplepaperview/1.1.2/link)

## Presentation ##

![Demo](demo.gif)

This is the source code of an Android library: `-=:[ SimplePaperView ]:=-`  
Simple View to draw lines, circles or text labels

- - -

## Why would you need it? ##

Have you ever tried to build your own, simple, custom view?  
Saying "it's a pain in the neck" is an euphemism!  

If you just need to draw a graph with some lines, basic shapes and labels all around... SimplePaperView takes care of anything:  
* draws on canvas
* applies proper translations
* handles onMeasure() method
* gives you the choice to invert the Y axis (like in classical cartesian system)
* considers padding, both programmatically and via layout

In this way you can put your effort on what you really care: create lines, circles, labels and beautify your view!

- - -

## How to use it? ##

Make sure to include the library in your app's build.gradle:
```groovy
    implementation 'com.lukelorusso:simplepaperview:1.1.2'
```  

Add the view to your layout:
```xml
<com.lukelorusso.simplepaperview.SimplePaperView
        android:id="@+id/mainSimplePaperView"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content"/>
```  

maybe add some padding or background color:
```
        ...
        android:background="@color/paperBackground"
        android:paddingTop="5dp"
        android:paddingBottom="5dp"
        android:paddingStart="10dp"
        android:paddingEnd="10dp"
        ...
```  

Let's move to the code!  
If you want to invert Y axis just:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.invertY = true
```

to create a lines:
```kotlin
val line = SimplePaperView.Line(
    200F, // starting x position
    200F, // starting y position
    400F, // destination x position
    0F, // destination y position
    Color.GREEN, // the color
    8F // the weight of this line
)
```  

Dimensions may be in pixels or dp: you choose!  

For a circle:
```kotlin
val circle = SimplePaperView.Circle(
    110F, // x position
    100F, // y position
    25F, // radius position
    Color.BLUE // the color
)
```  

Let's create a text label:
```kotlin
val label = SimplePaperView.TextLabel(
    "your text",
    18F, // text size
    110F, // x position
    50F, // y position
    ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.textLabel), // text color
    false, // if you want to center the text horizontally on the x point, set it true! 
    ResourcesCompat.getFont(this, R.font.roboto_italic) // optionally a custom font
)
```  

Now that you have all your items, you can draw one of them:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp(line)
```  
or  
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInPx(line)
```  

If you need to add multiple items and draw them together at the end, you can:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp(circle, false) // we invoke the choice to NOT invalidate the view -> false
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp(label, true) // now we want to invalidate (redraw) the view -> true
```  

Anyway, to simplify your life you may want to:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp( // or in px :)
    listOf(line, circle, label)
)
```  

Do you need a listener when your objects are all drawn?
```kotlin
mainSimplePaperView.setOnDrawListener { Log.d("SimplePaperView", "all drawn!") }
```  

Don't you like your drawing? Just clear the paper:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.clearPaper()
```  

More shapes coming soon! 😎

- - -

# Explore! #

Feel free to checkout and launch the example app 🎡

- - -

## Real life applications ##

[CalendarTrendView](https://github.com/lukelorusso/CalendarTrendView)

- - -

# Copyright #

Make with 💚 by [Luca Lorusso](http://lukelorusso.com), licensed under [Apache License 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

Migrating hosting provider to JitPack + Dependency update

README.md, after:

SimplePaperView
===============

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) [![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-android-green.svg)](http://developer.android.com/index.html) [![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-16%2B-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=16) [![Release](https://jitpack.io/v/lukelorusso/SimplePaperView.svg)](https://jitpack.io/#lukelorusso/SimplePaperView)

## Presentation ##

![Demo](demo.gif)

This is the source code of an Android library: `-=:[ SimplePaperView ]:=-`  
Simple View to draw lines, circles or text labels

- - -

## Why would you need it? ##

Have you ever tried to build your own, simple, custom view?  
Saying "it's a pain in the neck" is an euphemism!  

If you just need to draw a graph with some lines, basic shapes and labels all around... SimplePaperView takes care of anything:  
* draws on canvas
* applies proper translations
* handles onMeasure() method
* gives you the choice to invert the Y axis (like in classical cartesian system)
* considers padding, both programmatically and via layout

In this way you can put your effort on what you really care: create lines, circles, labels and beautify your view!

- - -

## How to use it? ##

Step 1. add the JitPack repository to your ROOT build.gradle at the end of repositories:

```groovy
allprojects {
    repositories {
        ...
        maven { url 'https://jitpack.io' }
    }
}
```

Step 2. add the dependency:

```groovy
    implementation 'com.github.lukelorusso:SimplePaperView:1.1.5'
```

That's it!

Now you can add the view to your layout:
```xml
<com.lukelorusso.simplepaperview.SimplePaperView
        android:id="@+id/mainSimplePaperView"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content"/>
```  

maybe add some padding or background color:
```
        ...
        android:background="@color/paperBackground"
        android:paddingTop="5dp"
        android:paddingBottom="5dp"
        android:paddingStart="10dp"
        android:paddingEnd="10dp"
        ...
```  

Let's move to the code!  
If you want to invert Y axis just:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.invertY = true
```

to create a lines:
```kotlin
val line = SimplePaperView.Line(
    200F, // starting x position
    200F, // starting y position
    400F, // destination x position
    0F, // destination y position
    Color.GREEN, // the color
    8F // the weight of this line
)
```  

Dimensions may be in pixels or dp: you choose!  

For a circle:
```kotlin
val circle = SimplePaperView.Circle(
    110F, // x position
    100F, // y position
    25F, // radius position
    Color.BLUE // the color
)
```  

Let's create a text label:
```kotlin
val label = SimplePaperView.TextLabel(
    "your text",
    18F, // text size
    110F, // x position
    50F, // y position
    ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.textLabel), // text color
    false, // if you want to center the text horizontally on the x point, set it true! 
    ResourcesCompat.getFont(this, R.font.roboto_italic) // optionally a custom font
)
```  

Now that you have all your items, you can draw one of them:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp(line)
```  
or  
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInPx(line)
```  

If you need to add multiple items and draw them together at the end, you can:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp(circle, false) // we invoke the choice to NOT invalidate the view -> false
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp(label, true) // now we want to invalidate (redraw) the view -> true
```  

Anyway, to simplify your life you may want to:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.drawInDp( // or in px :)
    listOf(line, circle, label)
)
```  

Do you need a listener when your objects are all drawn?
```kotlin
mainSimplePaperView.setOnDrawListener { Log.d("SimplePaperView", "all drawn!") }
```  

Don't you like your drawing? Just clear the paper:
```kotlin
mySimplePaperView.clearPaper()
```  

More shapes coming soon! 😎

- - -

# Explore! #

Feel free to checkout and launch the example app 🎡

- - -

## Real life applications ##

[CalendarTrendView](https://github.com/lukelorusso/CalendarTrendView)

- - -

# Copyright #

Make with 💚 by [Luca Lorusso](http://lukelorusso.com), licensed under [Apache License 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
